# Hospitality Industry Dashboard

## Project Overview
The primary goal of this project is to create an interactive Power BI dashboard that visualizes booking data for various properties. The dashboard aims to facilitate data-driven decision-making by providing insights into booking trends, room categories, and occupancy rates.

## Data Source
The dataset used in this project is stored in **fact_aggregated_bookings.csv**, **fact_bookings.csv**, **dim_date**, **dim_hotels**, **dim_rooms**

Column description for **fact_aggregated_bookings**:
- **property_id**: represents the Unique ID for each of the hotels.
- **check_in_date**: represents all the check_in_dates of the customers.
- **room_category**: represents the type of room[RT1, RT2, RT3, RT4] in a hotel.
- **successful_bookings**: represents all the successful room bookings that happen for a particular room type in that hotel on that particular date.
- **capacity**: represents the maximum count of rooms available for a particular room type in that hotel on that particular date.
***
Column description for **fact_bookings.csv**:
- **booking_id**: represents the Unique Booking ID for each customer when they booked their rooms.
- **property_id**: represents the Unique ID for each of the hotels
- **booking_date**: represents the date on which the customer booked their rooms.
- **check_in_date**: represents the date on which the customer check-in(entered) at the hotel.
- **check_out_date**: represents the date on which the customer check-out(left) of the hotel.
- **no_guests**:  represents the number of guests who stayed in a particular room in that hotel.
- **room_category**: represents the type of room[RT1, RT2, RT3, RT4] in a hotel.
- **booking_platform**: represents in which way the customer booked his room.
- **ratings_given**: represents the ratings given by the customer for hotel services.
- **booking_status**: represents whether the customer cancelled his booking[Cancelled], successfully stayed in the hotel[Checked Out] or booked his room but not stayed in the hotel[No show].
- **revenue_generated**: represents the amount of money generated by the hotel from a particular customer.
- **revenue_realized**: represents the final amount of money that goes to the hotel based on booking status. If the booking status is cancelled, then 40% of the revenue generated is deducted and the remaining is refunded to the customer. If the booking status is Checked Out/No show, then full revenue generated will goes to hotels.
***
Column Description for **dim_date**:
- **date**: This column represents the dates present in May, June and July.
- **mmm yy**: This column represents the date in the format of mmm yy (monthname year).
- **week no**: This column represents the unique week number for that particular date.
4. **day_type**: This column represents whether the given day is Weekend or Weekeday.
***
Column Description for **dim_hotels**:
- **property_id**: This column represents the Unique ID for each of the hotels.
- **property_name**: This column represents the name of each hotel.
- **category**: This column determines which class[Luxury, Business] a particular hotel/property belongs to. 
- **city**: This column represents where the particular hotel/property resides in.
***
Column Description for **dim_rooms**:
- **room_id**: This column represents the type of room[RT1, RT2, RT3, RT4] in a hotel.
- **room_class**: This column represents to which class[Standard, Elite, Premium, Presidential] particular room type belongs.
